---
layout: post
title:  "Compute Services"
tag: Part 2
---


# Compute Services

1. With Azure Virtual Machines, you can create and use VMs in the cloud. Virtual Machines provides infrastructure as a service (IaaS) and can be used in different ways. When you need total control over an operating system and environment, VMs are an ideal choice. 

2. Virtual machine scale sets are an Azure compute resource that you can use to deploy and manage a set of identical VMs. With all VMs configured the same, virtual machine scale sets are designed to support true autoscale. Elasticity

3. Container Instances(PaaS) and Azure Kubernetes Service are Azure compute resources that you can use to deploy and manage containers. 

4. With Azure App Service, you can quickly build, deploy, and scale enterprise-grade web, mobile, and API apps running on any platform. App Service is a platform as a service (PaaS) offering.

5. Functions are ideal when you're concerned only about the code running your service and not the underlying platform or infrastructure. They're commonly used when you need to perform work in response to an event (often via a REST request), timer, or message from another Azure service, and when that work can be completed quickly, within seconds or less.

6. Azure Batch enables large-scale parallel and high-performance computing (HPC) batch jobs with the ability to scale to tens, hundreds, or thousands of VMs.

### Types of App Service

* Web apps - App Service includes full support for hosting web apps by using ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python.
* API apps - Much like hosting a website, you can build REST-based web APIs by using your choice of language and framework. You get full Swagger support and the ability to package and publish your API in Azure Marketplace. The produced apps can be consumed from any HTTP- or HTTPS-based client.
* WebJobs - You can use the WebJobs feature to run a program (.exe, Java, PHP, Python, or Node.js) or script (.cmd, .bat, PowerShell, or Bash) in the same context as a web app, API app, or mobile app. They can be scheduled or run by a trigger.
* Mobile apps - Use the Mobile Apps feature of App Service to quickly build a back end for iOS and Android apps. 

