---
layout: post
title:  "IoT Services"
tag: Part 3
---

# IOT Services

1. IoT bridges the physical and digital worlds by enabling devices with sensors and an internet connection to communicate with cloud-based systems via the internet.

2. By using Azure IoT services, devices that are equipped with these kinds of sensors and that can connect to the internet could send their sensor readings to a specific endpoint in Azure via a message. The message's data is then collected and aggregated, and it can be converted into reports and alerts. Alternately, all devices could be updated with new firmware to fix issues or add new functionality by sending software updates from Azure IoT services to each device.

### Azure IoT Hub

1. A central message hub for bi-directional communication between your IoT application and the devices it manages.

2. supports multiple messaging patterns, such as device-to-cloud telemetry, file upload from devices, and request-reply methods to control your devices from the cloud

3. IoT Hub allows for command and control

### Azure IoT Central

1. The visual user interface (UI) makes it easy to quickly connect new devices and watch as they begin sending telemetry or error messages. 

2. A key part of IoT Central is the use of device templates. By using a device template, you can connect a device without any service-side coding. 

### Azure Sphere

1. creates an end-to-end, highly secure IoT solution for customers that encompasses everything from the hardware and operating system on the device to the secure method of sending messages from the device to the message hub. Azure Sphere has built-in communication and security features for internet-connected devices.

* Azure Sphere micro-controller unit (MCU), which is responsible for processing the operating system and signals from attached sensors

* The second part is a customized Linux operating system (OS) that handles communication with the security service and can run the vendor's software.

* The third part is Azure Sphere Security Service, also known as AS3. Its job is to make sure that the device has not been maliciously compromised

2. When security is a critical consideration in your product's design, the best product option is Azure Sphere